.github/CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

This module has grown over time based on a range of contributions from
people using it. If you follow these contributing guidelines your patch
will likely make it into a release a little more quickly.

## Contributing

Please note that this project is released with a Contributor Code of Conduct.
By participating in this project you agree to abide by its terms.
[Contributor Code of Conduct](https://voxpupuli.org/coc/).

1. Fork the repo.

1. Create a separate branch for your change.

1. Run the tests. We only take pull requests with passing tests, and
   documentation.

1. Add a test for your change. Only refactoring and documentation
   changes require no new tests. If you are adding functionality
   or fixing a bug, please add a test.

1. Squash your commits down into logical components. Make sure to rebase
   against the current master.

1. Push the branch to your fork and submit a pull request.

Please be prepared to repeat some of these steps as our contributors review
your code.

## Dependencies

The testing and development tools have a bunch of dependencies,
all managed by [bundler](http://bundler.io/) according to the
[Puppet support matrix](http://docs.puppetlabs.com/guides/platforms.html#ruby-versions).

By default the tests use a baseline version of Puppet.

If you have Ruby 2.x or want a specific version of Puppet,
you must set an environment variable such as:

    export PUPPET_VERSION="~> 4.2.0"

Install the dependencies like so...

    bundle install

## Syntax and style

The test suite will run [Puppet Lint](http://puppet-lint.com/) and
[Puppet Syntax](https://github.com/gds-operations/puppet-syntax) to
check various syntax and style things. You can run these locally with:

    bundle exec rake lint
    bundle exec rake validate

It will also run some [Rubocop](http://batsov.com/rubocop/) tests
against it. You can run those locally ahead of time with:

    bundle exec rake rubocop

## Running the unit tests

The unit test suite covers most of the code, as mentioned above please
add tests if you're adding new functionality. If you've not used
[rspec-puppet](http://rspec-puppet.com/) before then feel free to ask
about how best to test your new feature.

To run the linter, the syntax checker and the unit tests:

    bundle exec rake test

To run your all the unit tests

    bundle exec rake spec SPEC_OPTS='--format documentation'

To run a specific spec test set the `SPEC` variable:

    bundle exec rake spec SPEC=spec/foo_spec.rb

## Integration tests

The unit tests just check the code runs, not that it does exactly what
we want on a real machine. For that we're using
[beaker](https://github.com/puppetlabs/beaker).

This fires up a new virtual machine (using vagrant) and runs a series of
simple tests against it after applying the module. You can run this
with:

    bundle exec rake acceptance

This will run the tests on the module's default nodeset. You can override the
nodeset used, e.g.,

    BEAKER_set=centos-7-x64 bundle exec rake acceptance

There are default rake tasks for the various acceptance test modules, e.g.,

    bundle exec rake beaker:centos-7-x64
    bundle exec rake beaker:ssh:centos-7-x64

If you don't want to have to recreate the virtual machine every time you can
use `BEAKER_destroy=no` and `BEAKER_provision=no`. On the first run you will at
least need `BEAKER_provision` set to yes (the default). The Vagrantfile for the
created virtual machines will be in `.vagrant/beaker_vagrant_files`.

The easiest way to debug in a docker container is to open a shell:

    docker exec -it -u root ${container_id_or_name} bash

Commit message:

(SIMP-6228) Migration to 1.6.1 (#2)
* (SIMP-6228) Migration to 1.6.1

Migration of voxpupuli-selinux to simp-vox_selinux for verstion 1.6.1

SIMP-6228 #close

* Update config.pp

* Update init.pp

.github/CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

This module has grown over time based on a range of contributions from
people using it. If you follow these contributing guidelines your patch
will likely make it into a release a little more quickly.

## Contributing

Please note that this project is released with a Contributor Code of Conduct.
By participating in this project you agree to abide by its terms.
[Contributor Code of Conduct](https://voxpupuli.org/coc/).

1. Fork the repo.

1. Create a separate branch for your change.

1. Run the tests. We only take pull requests with passing tests, and
   documentation.

1. Add a test for your change. Only refactoring and documentation
   changes require no new tests. If you are adding functionality
   or fixing a bug, please add a test.

1. Squash your commits down into logical components. Make sure to rebase
   against the current master.

1. Push the branch to your fork and submit a pull request.

Please be prepared to repeat some of these steps as our contributors review
your code.

## Dependencies

The testing and development tools have a bunch of dependencies,
all managed by [bundler](http://bundler.io/) according to the
[Puppet support matrix](http://docs.puppetlabs.com/guides/platforms.html#ruby-versions).

By default the tests use a baseline version of Puppet.

If you have Ruby 2.x or want a specific version of Puppet,
you must set an environment variable such as:

    export PUPPET_VERSION="~> 4.2.0"

You can install all needed gems for spec tests into the modules directory by
running:

```sh
bundle install --path .vendor/ --without development --without system_tests --without release
```

If you also want to run acceptance tests:

```sh
bundle install --path .vendor/ --without development --with system_tests --without release
```

Our all in one solution if you don't know if you need to install or update gems:

```sh
bundle install --path .vendor/ --without development --with system_tests --without release; bundle update; bundle clean
```

## Syntax and style

The test suite will run [Puppet Lint](http://puppet-lint.com/) and
[Puppet Syntax](https://github.com/gds-operations/puppet-syntax) to
check various syntax and style things. You can run these locally with:

    bundle exec rake lint
    bundle exec rake validate

It will also run some [Rubocop](http://batsov.com/rubocop/) tests
against it. You can run those locally ahead of time with:

    bundle exec rake rubocop

## Running the unit tests

The unit test suite covers most of the code, as mentioned above please
add tests if you're adding new functionality. If you've not used
[rspec-puppet](http://rspec-puppet.com/) before then feel free to ask
about how best to test your new feature.

To run the linter, the syntax checker and the unit tests:

    bundle exec rake test

To run your all the unit tests

    bundle exec rake spec SPEC_OPTS='--format documentation'

To run a specific spec test set the `SPEC` variable:

    bundle exec rake spec SPEC=spec/foo_spec.rb

## Integration tests

The unit tests just check the code runs, not that it does exactly what
we want on a real machine. For that we're using
[beaker](https://github.com/puppetlabs/beaker).

This fires up a new virtual machine (using vagrant) and runs a series of
simple tests against it after applying the module. You can run this
with:

    bundle exec rake acceptance

This will run the tests on the module's default nodeset. You can override the
nodeset used, e.g.,

    BEAKER_set=centos-7-x64 bundle exec rake acceptance

There are default rake tasks for the various acceptance test modules, e.g.,

    bundle exec rake beaker:centos-7-x64
    bundle exec rake beaker:ssh:centos-7-x64

If you don't want to have to recreate the virtual machine every time you can
use `BEAKER_destroy=no` and `BEAKER_provision=no`. On the first run you will at
least need `BEAKER_provision` set to yes (the default). The Vagrantfile for the
created virtual machines will be in `.vagrant/beaker_vagrant_files`.

The easiest way to debug in a docker container is to open a shell:

    docker exec -it -u root ${container_id_or_name} bash
